it's early morning
and Tigger spots a strange black cat on
a nearby roof and listen to this
chittering may simply be a sound of
frustration but no one's really sure
rocky out for a stroll in the afternoon
makes this noise when another cat blocks
his way
but the story of cat communication is a
lot more surprising than this there's
one noise we've hardly heard it rarely
happens when the cats are out with each
other to understand what's going on we
have to go back to the beginning and the
youngest members of the study
biologists dr. John Bradshaw can explain
why these 1 week old kittens meow
the meows starts off as a kitten
vocalization it's something that kittens
use in order to call their mothers over
and as you can see it's very effective
in doing that the mother is very
attentive to those meows and then as the
kitten grows up it gradually stops
meowing
presumably just because the meow stops
working the mother wants to wean the
kitten and stops responding with a pet
cat which is constantly meowing at its
owner it's a way of getting the owner's
attention that's because we are not very
vigilant creatures we spend a lot of our
time with our noses buried in books or
computer screens or TVs and the cat each
cat learns independently we think that
using this piece of kitten behavior is a
good way of getting our attention so
meowing is a good we're getting to look
up and find out what it is they want
from us there you go Henri can say hello
to mommy
hope so cats have two different
languages one for each other
oh and one for us
scientists have found cats make a huge
range of meows and they wondered if
there was a universal cat human language
there's a trill that just doesn't they
was quiet
yeah that's it they make that funny
little noise ago scientists have
discovered that every cats meows are
unique each cat learns which noises work
best in certain situations developing a
special language that only their owner
will understand when they want food it's
a much more prolonged meow hungry Oh
Miss Piggy's learned how to say milk so
she does a proper milk VL is that milk
yeah what is it nice and when our cat's
meow there's one thing that almost every
owner in the study said they did did you
go hunting today hmm
talk back good to go you're pretty cool
your mama's pretty go big see you lovely
girl yeah talking comes naturally to us
and every kitten that spends time with
people learns that to communicate with
us they have to make a noise